[DOCS-2174] Database Monitoring product documentation (#11195)
DataDog/documentation: content/en/database_monitoring/setup_mysql/rds.md

Database Monitoring runs as an integration on top of the base Agent ([see benchmarks][1]).

Proxies, load balancers, and connection poolers
: The Agent must connect directly to the host being monitored, preferably through the instance endpoint. The Agent should not connect to the database through a proxy, load balancer, or connection pooler. While this can be an anti-pattern for client applications, each Agent must have knowledge of the underlying hostname and should stick to a single host for its lifetime, even in cases of failover. If the Datadog Agent connects to different hosts while it is running, the values of metrics will be incorrect.

Data security considerations
: See [Sensitive information][2] for information about what data the Agent collects from your databases and how to ensure it is secure.

## Configure MySQL settings

Configure the following in the [DB Parameter Group][3] and then **restart the server** for the settings to take effect:

{{< tabs >}}
{{% tab "MySQL 5.6" %}}
| Parameter | Value | Description |
| --- | --- | --- |

> | `performance_schema` | `1` | Required. Enables the [Performance Schema][4]. |

Reviewer: [4] like isn't rendering for both tables

Author: fixed! thank you

GRANT SELECT ON performance_schema.* TO datadog@'%';
```

{{% /tab %}}
{{< /tabs >}}

Create the following schema:

```sql
CREATE SCHEMA IF NOT EXISTS datadog;
GRANT EXECUTE ON datadog.* to datadog@'%';
GRANT CREATE TEMPORARY TABLES ON datadog.* TO datadog@'%';
```

Create the the `explain_statement` procedure to enable the Agent to collect explain plans:

```sql
DELIMITER $$
CREATE PROCEDURE datadog.explain_statement(IN query TEXT)
    SQL SECURITY DEFINER
BEGIN
    SET @explain := CONCAT('EXPLAIN FORMAT=json ', query);
    PREPARE stmt FROM @explain;
    EXECUTE stmt;
    DEALLOCATE PREPARE stmt;
END $$
DELIMITER ;
```

Additionally, create this procedure **in every schema** from which you want to collect explain plans. Replace `<YOUR_SCHEMA>` with your database schema:

```sql
DELIMITER $$
CREATE PROCEDURE <YOUR_SCHEMA>.explain_statement(IN query TEXT)
    SQL SECURITY DEFINER
BEGIN
    SET @explain := CONCAT('EXPLAIN FORMAT=json ', query);
    PREPARE stmt FROM @explain;
    EXECUTE stmt;
    DEALLOCATE PREPARE stmt;
END $$
DELIMITER ;
GRANT EXECUTE ON PROCEDURE <YOUR_SCHEMA>.explain_statement TO datadog@'%';
```

### Runtime setup consumers

> Because with RDS, the performance schema consumers can't be enabled permanently in the configuration, you must create the following procedure to give the Agent the ability to enable `performance_schema.events_statements_*` consumers at runtime.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With RDS, performance schema consumers can't be enabled permanently in a configuration. Create the following procedure to give the Agent the ability to enable `performance_schema.events_statements_*` consumers at runtime.
```

```SQL
DELIMITER $$
CREATE PROCEDURE datadog.enable_events_statements_consumers()
    SQL SECURITY DEFINER
BEGIN
    UPDATE performance_schema.setup_consumers SET enabled='YES' WHERE name LIKE 'events_statements_%';
END $$
DELIMITER ;
GRANT EXECUTE ON PROCEDURE datadog.enable_events_statements_consumers TO datadog@'%';
```

## Install the Agent

> To monitor RDS hosts, install the Agent somewhere in your infrastructure and configure it to connect to each instance endpoint remotely. The agent does not need to run on the database, it only needs to connect to it. For additional Agent installation methods not mentioned here, see the [Agent installation instructions][5].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To monitor RDS hosts, install the Datadog Agent somewhere in your infrastructure and configure it to connect to each instance endpoint remotely. The Agent does not need to run on the database, it only needs to connect to it. For additional Agent installation methods not mentioned here, see the [Agent installation instructions][5].
```

Author: ```suggestion
To monitor RDS hosts, install the Datadog Agent in your infrastructure and configure it to connect to each instance endpoint remotely. The Agent does not need to run on the database, it only needs to connect to it. For additional Agent installation methods not mentioned here, see the [Agent installation instructions][5].
```

Add this configuration block to your `mysql.d/conf.yaml` to collect MySQL metrics:

```yaml
init_config:

instances:
  - dbm: true
    host: '<AWS_INSTANCE_ENDPOINT>'
    port: 3306 # e.g. 3306
    username: datadog
    password: '<YOUR_CHOSEN_PASSWORD>' # from the CREATE USER step earlier
```

**Note**: Wrap your password in single quotes in case a special character is present.

[Restart the Agent][3] to start sending MySQL metrics to Datadog.

[1]: /agent/guide/agent-configuration-files/#agent-configuration-directory
[2]: https://github.com/DataDog/integrations-core/blob/master/mysql/datadog_checks/mysql/data/conf.yaml.example
[3]: /agent/guide/agent-commands/#start-stop-and-restart-the-agent
{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab "Docker" %}}

To configure the Database Monitoring Agent running in a Docker container such as in ECS or Fargate, you can set the [Autodiscovery Integration Templates][1] as Docker labels on your agent container.

> **Note**: the Agent must have read permission on the docker socket for Autodiscovery of labels to work.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Note**: The Agent must have read permission on the docker socket for Autodiscovery of labels to work.
```

Author: ```suggestion
**Note**: The Agent must have read permission on the Docker socket for Autodiscovery of labels to work.
```
